# Barcelona
Our second visit to Barcelona confirmed our belief that Barcelona is one of the greatest cities in Europe for tourists: walkable but with excellent public transport options; stunning architecture; delicious food. 

While on the cruise, we received an e-mail from our hotel saying that due to an unforseen maintenance issue our reservation had been transferred to the Hotel Catalonia Square. This worked out for us - the hotel was just a two minute walk from Plaça de Catalunya, a more central location than our original location near the Arc de Triomf. A late breakfast (around 8:15) meant that the ship had mostly emptied and the disembarkation process was very straightforward - walk off the ship with our luggage, hop on the Barcelona port shuttle (3 euros per person) to the World Trade Center, then walk to the L3 station at Drassanes for two stops (to Catalunya). 

While we had originally intended to take the extra day to explore Barcelona, this proved more challenging than expected due to the need to carry our backpacks around all day (the room wouldn't be available until 3pm). Our first stop was the Sagrada Familia.

Less than two minutes away is Madre Taberna Moderna, which we stumbled upon (noticing the line of people waiting to get in at 1pm) because our original choice for lunch (Can Pizza) was closed. Lunch was spectacular - a delicious sangria followed by patatas bravas (the salsa brava was deliciously smoky, almost like a barbecue sauce), the seasonal salad "Casa Madre" (with the unexpected but delicious combination of anchovies?, green beans, potatoes, tomatoes and lettuce), roasted eggplant stuffed with vegan sobresada and creamy brie (the eggplant was presented whole and "carved" tableside by our server) and cannelloni of sausage and ceps with truffled bechamel sauce (what surprised us was the dish was presented as a single long cannelloni filled with sausage).

We then headed to Casa Battló, which I was a bit nervous about given the many Tripadvisor reviews describing long lines (with people who had booked online forced to wait 30 minutes-1 hour past their scheduled timeslot) and confusing customer service. We had purchased tickets for €33 each in the morning while taking a break in the hotel after dropping off our luggage (same-day availability didn't seem to be an issue at all). Our timeslot was at 2:15pm, and we only waited around 10 minutes (just long enough for Elizabeth to get a McFlurry from the McDonald's across the street) before they started letting us through. We picked up our audioguide and made our way through the different rooms of the house, starting from the entrance hall to the roof, with the lightwell, main living room and roof the most striking to us. In hindsight, I think we should have gone for the €41 gold tickets, which came with a tablet that showed how each room might have been originally furnished, as the audioguide was not particularly insightful (focused mostly on how we should feel as we enter each room, and also with a women narrating the voice of the house itself). The magic cube at the end of the visit was also...a bit terrible.

After picking up our room key and getting a well-deserved break in the hotel room, we took the L1 from Urquinaona to Espanya, then walked to the Poble Espanyol for a flamenco show at Tablao de Carmen. We loved walking through the Poble Espanyol - it was cute without being too kitschy or over-the-top (though the displays could have been more informative so we could better understand what we were looking at - we saw a number of guided tour groups in the park). The flamenco show at Tablao de Carmen was excellent. We bought €68 tickets, which included a tapas dinner. After being seated, we were served red wine sangria, patatas bravas, meat and spinach croquettes, Russian salad, manchego cheese with grissini, Andalusian-style chicken and potato bombas, followed by crema catalana for dessert. The food was excellent (especially the croquettes and Russian salad).

The next morning, we took the A1 bus from Plaça de Catalunya to Barcelona El Prat airport, grabbing a quick lunch at McDonald's before flying back to London.
